dūrasthāh parvatāh ramyāh

The mountain looks beautiful from a far off distance, that is what the title meant. But when you go near it, you figure out that  it is nothing but mud and stones. The general idea is that we sometimes fancy certain professions looking at its upsides without getting into it. Many of my friends say that they want to set up a cafe and lead their life. But if you ask yourself what made you choose setting up a cafe. Most of the times it is the perceived image of how it will be. The brain is not trained to look at the downsides naturally. You have to force it. My friends have never wondered how difficult it would be to wake up at 4 am in the morning, day in and day out and look after things so that you can sell that day. At times, when your baker is on leave, you might have to knead the dough yourself. 

The psychologist Paul Slovic in his experiments concluded that instead of answering the difficult question, we tend to answer an alternative easier question. "What we think about it?" gets replaced with "How we feel about it?" because it's  easier to answer that with your system 1 thinking.(From Thinking Fast and Slow, Daniel Kahneman)

Now that you have taken a decision and thought of all that could go right and wrong, there is no other alternative to taking the step ahead and step into the water to know the depth, provided you have taken the leap of faith to pursue it. 

You have one life (a colleague had a stroke and passed away today). Why do you expect it to be perfect? Life is not meant to be perfect. It is meant to be experienced and you have to carry out experiments. You have to play the game long enough that one tail event can change your life.
Do as many experiments in your life but see to it that the experiment will not diminish your terminal value to zero. You multiply all that you want and one zero anywhere will make the terminal value zero. The goal is to survive long enough so you can get many chances to take your shot. No Russian Roulette to be played.

This page is dedicated to those experiments and I shall document everything and shall come back to read this blog at the age of 100 that I lived a very deep life filled with experiences and experiments. 

My goals right now is 
- Have a good hit rate x position sizing in this 2026 bull run. I need to double my portfolio by the end of the current fiscal year.
- Experimenting with my career to see how I can evolve from Software Development to Equity Research.
- Trying to get back to learning Indian Philosophy. Started learning Tarka Sangraha of Annambhatta. 